---
layout: page
title: Resume
description: chrislovecnm resume
permalink: /resume/
---

# Chris Love

<address>
Email Address: <a href="mailto:jobs+blog@cnmconsulting.net">jobs+blog@cnmconsulting.net</a><br>
GitHub URL: <a href="https://github.com/{{ site.twitter_username }}"><i class="fa fa-github"></i></a><br>
Linkedin URL: <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/{{ site.twitter_username }}"><i class="fa fa-linkedin"></i></a>
</address>

## Kubernetes DevOps Architect and Engineer

More than eighteen years of diverse experience creating custom solutions;
Kubernetes Implementations, DevOps solutions, Big Data Implementations, and
scalable microservices.  Proven ability to solve complex problems with limited
resources, on-time, and within budget. Retained critical clients in high
pressure and politically charged situations by identifying and creating unique
solutions, thereby maintaining revenue. Industry-leading blend of cutting-edge
Kubernetes Deployments, Big Data Technologies, and system integration.
Kubernetes core contributor, kops owner, and lead achitect for the Google
Professional Services Helmsman project.

## Skills

<table class="custom-table">
  <tr>
    <th>Cloud Stacks</th>
    <td>Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud Platform, vSphere 6.x</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Containers</th>
    <td>Kubernetes, Docker, Bazel, Mesos</td>
 </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>DevOps Tools</th>
    <td>Graphana, Prometheus, Kibana, Terraform, Knife, Icinga, logstash, collectd</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>Big Data</th>
    <td>Apache Cassandra, Apache Spark, Elastic (ELK), Redis, Hadoop</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Operating Systems</th>
    <td>Linux (Gentoo, RHEL, CentOS, Ubuntu, CoreOS), Mac OS X, Microsoft Windows Server</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Languages</th>
    <td>Go, Java, Groovy, Scala, Python, Ruby, C/C++, Lua 5.1 </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Dev Software</th>
    <td>Intellej, Bazel, Make, Git, Gradle, Maven, Hudson, Jenkins</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Other Tools</th>
    <td>VMware Virtual Cloud Director 5.5, VMware VRealize Suite, Tomcat, Nginx, Apache ActiveMQ 5, Apache Camel, RabbitMQ, MySQL, Percona</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Experience
### Kubernetes Organization
<span class="by-line">04/2016 – Present</span>

Kubernetes contributor and active community member. Focus is primarily in three
areas; Goggle Helmsman, kops, and mentoring.

Principle Architect working with the Google Professional Services Helmsman
Program. The project released on 07/25/2018 include 15 OSS demos covering
various topics focusing on using Kuberenetes Engine on GCP, and connecting
Kubernetes Engine on GCP to Kubernetes Engine On-Prem.

kops is the easiest way to get a production-grade Kubernetes cluster up and
running in EC2 or GCE. Added support for installing CNI providers, and cluster
validation. Improved kop rolling-update to include support for draining and
validating clusters. Worked on support for air gapping kops installations and
re-using share security groups and IAM profiles. Assisted other contributors
with design and reviewed numerous Pull Requests. Implemented kops bi-weekly
developer offices hours.

Volunteered as one of the leaders in the AWS special interest group.
Facilitating meetings, and involved in product decisions for AWS cloud support
in the Kubernetes project. Implemented critical fix 
[#39551](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/39551) for Kubernetes
 1.4.9 that enabled changing times on volume attach/detach reconciling sync to fixing
impact to AWS API calls.  Assisting with the creation of an official Kubernetes
Mentorship program.


### Google / Reactive Ops
<span class="by-line">03/2018  – Present</span>

Technical lead and principal architect working with Google Proserve on Helmsman
program. Set technical guidance and oversaw technical quality for all assests
delivered. Team included over 20 engineers.

Led the release of 15+ OSS projects on GitHub here. 
In those demos and tutorials we covered a range of topics broken into
various areas; Databases, Networking, Rolling Updates, Istio, Security, Logging
Monitoring and Tracing.

Each of the above tracks include accompanying presentations that are available
to Google Partners.

### Vorstella
<span class="by-line">06/2017  – 10/2017</span>

Assist in deploying Kubernetes into air-gapped enterprise environments with kops
self-hosted assets.  Implemented capability to re-use security groups, iam
profiles, in order to pass security review and PEM testing.  Utilized helm
charts to deploy Cassandra and Datastax enterprise.  Designed and implemented
Cassandra containers and stateful sets based on contributed Kubernetes Cassandra
examples. Implemented POC using weave to create a mesh pod network between two
K8s clusters. Mentored developers in K8s design and custom application
implementation.

### Datapipe
<span class="by-line">05/2016  – 05/2017</span>

Lead architecture and deployment of Kubernetes deployment for trebuchet SAS
platform hosted in AWS. Architecture included CNI networking, installation tool
selection. Designed kops private topology, deploying nodes in private VPC
utilizing AWS Nat Gateways. Mentored staff on advanced Kubernetes DevOps,
microservices and stateful applications.  Assisted with maintaining 5/9's
availability of Kubernetes environments.

### Cisco
<span class="by-line">10/2015  – 12/2015</span>

Contributed to Cisco Cloud open source project named Mantl.  Mantl is a platform
for rapidly deploying globally distributed services.  Mantl platform utilizes
Ansible, Ansible plugins, and Terraform to install cloud environments.  Once the
cloud environment and servers are launched, Mantl can be configured to install
Mesos, Kubernetes, Docker, and other technologies such as ELK.  Focused on
furthering Mantl, Terraform, and vSphere integration.  Assisted in setting up
vSphere 6.0 test cluster, allowing for end-to-end system tests.  Contributed to
Terraform project, written in Go, and assisted in managing various bugs on
Github.  Modified and tested Mantl Ansible python plug-ins allowing for the use
of new terraform provider.  Wrote a white paper on running Cassandra on either
Mesos or Kubernetes, which contrasted pros and cons.  Completed assessment and
diagnosis of Cassandra challenges.

### CenturyLink Technology Solutions - Formerly Savvis
<span class="by-line">11/2013  – 09/2015</span>

Held multiple Software and DevOps roles within the company.  Projects varied
from acting as a subject matter expert for VMware Cloud API, to interacting with
top client’s dealing with mission-critical issues.  Software projects primarily
included Spring-based Java, and Ruby working on chef and knife.  Involved in the
creation of an online marketplace for virtual machines within CenturyLink’s
cloud product.  Lead member of team to allow CenturyLink to sell VMware vRealize
Operations to their clients.

Assisted teams to overcome hurdles with virtual machine deployment. Worked with
internal and VMware support to resolve software and system issues. Discovered
various mission-critical bugs before they directly impacted clients, and created
SLA fines for CenturyLink.  Introduced using `knife`, a component of `chef`, for
the DevOps engineers. Knifed reduced the deployment time in half of a fully
managed and configured virtual machines.  Created reports that allowed the
client to reduce their costs, and determine low and high use systems. Assisted
DevOps teams with various puppet improvements.


### Smile Brands
<span class="by-line">08/2012 – 01/2013</span>

Lead initiative to process dental insurance claims via integration with various
partners.  Utilizing Apache Camel and web services to process and submit claims
to insurance processors.  Running Camel inside of Apache Karaf within an OSGI
based classloading system.  Data layer is Oracle based utilizing JPA to
communicate with the database.  Web and Apache Camel layers are implemented
using various Spring 3.2 components including REST, MVC, AOP, and dependency
injection.

### Dish Network
<span class="by-line">06/2011 – 12/2011</span>

After initial project served is part-time consultant assisting with various
technical and implementation challenges.  Worked hand in hand with SecureAuth
(SAML identity company) to create SAML SSO environment to pilot security model
for Dish Network and Blockbuster Video. Created POC implementation of a secure
J2EE web application hosted in WebLogic with user identities and roles secured
via SecureAuth SAML IdP.  Assisted SecureAuth with product improvements to
enable SecureAuth to act as an IdP for WebLogic.

Fully documented POC and trained Dish Network staff on SAML, the implementation
of secure WebLogic application and the implementation of security utilizing
SecureAuth. Integrated Tomcat with SecureAuth using Spring Security SAML
Extension.

### AT&amp;T - Spring / vFrabric Consultant
<span class="by-line">08/2011 – 7/2012</span>


Serving as a Senior Consult, working with AT&amp;T, to integrate VMware Virtual
Cloud Director with various network and IP provisioning and billing systems.
Created a Grails audit tool to track discrepancies between AT&amp;T network
provisioning and the usage of those provisions within VMware Virtual Cloud
Director.  Grails application utilizes Twitter Bootstrap for look and feel, and
jQuery as it’s JavaScript library.   Leveraged groovy to lazy load process XML
that was created by a Spring Integration system which aggregates data from Oracle
databases into XML reports.

Built integration bridge linking vCD and IP / Network provisioning tools.
Utilized Spring MVC and Spring Rest Client to build a rest bridge allowing data
conversion between XML and JSON.  Assisted with the creation of  Spring
Integration system that listens for RabbitMQ messages from vCD then routes the
messages to AT&amp;T’s billing system. Implemented new continuous integration
build system utilizing Jenkins and Maven.  Started test-driven development and
maven build policies for release management.  Trained and mentored AT&amp;T
staff in Spring, Maven, Unit Testing, and CI best practices and industry
standards.

### Progress Software – ADP and Garden City Group
<span class="by-line">05/2011 – 07/2011</span>


ADP – Expanded functionality of previously implemented Spring based web
services.  This service layer provided the custom capability to create forecasts
of future tasks within a running Savvion BusinessManager process.  Mentored
staff in utilizing Spring based JUnit testing to save considerable time testing
functionality outside of the Savvion container.

Garden City Group – Assisted with the creation of a custom adapter for the
integration of web services. Implemented various examples, including a web
application that hosted CXF web services. This application provides examples of
how to integrate an external web application with Savvion BusinessManager via
the BizLogic Client API.  Using an external web application allows the creation
of new Savvion components while not adding the custom code to the Savvion
installation.  This architecture allows for easier future upgrades.  Worked with
GCG to create production architecture for SBM 7.8 deployed on RedHat JBoss AS.

### Accenture – Healthcare Client
<span class="by-line">07/2010 – 04/2011</span>


Contracted as lead architect and portal developer. Brought on to address various
WebCenter Interaction needs and PeopleSoft content integration. Discovered
challenges with Single Sign-On and WSRP solution.  Worked with Oracle WebCenter
development group to architect WSRP / SAML solution utilizing the following
technology stack: WebCenter Interaction 10g, WebCenter Pagelet Producer 11g,
Oracle Virtual Directory 11g, Oracle Access Manager 11g, and PeopleSoft.  The
solution allows users to access PeopleSoft content from within a WebCenter
Interaction Portal, and the user’s identity is passed to PeopleSoft via Oracle
Access Manager and SAML.

Designed and implemented web application to provide user access to Siebel
tickets via a WebCenter Interaction portlet.  User Interface utilized Ext JS,
Spring, CXF Rest and Webservices.  Stabilized production deployment using WLST
and Maven.  Worked with Oracle On Demand to implement and deploy various
components and technologies including WebCenter Interaction, WebCenter Spaces,
Single Sign-On, WebLogic, Identity Management and SSL Security. Mentored client
staff in technologies including Maven, Git, Spring, WLST, Ext JS, and other
Oracle technologies.

### ADP
<span class="by-line">02/2010 – 06/2010</span>


Implemented custom web service to provide access to various data points within
certain Savvion BusinessManager 7.5 processes.  Utilized BizLogic APIs, BizLogic
Query Service, and BizStore Query Service to access and aggregate various data
points within processes.  Wrote custom service that allowed a process to be
completed while setting a data slot before the process was completed.  Developed
a service layer that allowed the setting of various data slot values within a
process.  Created JSP front-end to interact with the above services utilizing
EXT JS libraries and JSON.  Worked with BizLogic and BizSolo process flows.

### Intuit
<span class="by-line">03/2009 – 12/2009</span>


Re-architected legacy daemon process into a web application utilizing Spring,
JPA, RestEasy, CXF, Apache Camel, and Apache ActiveMQ.  System-integrated
multiple systems including databases, VMLogix, proprietary interfaces and source
control.  Reduced overall lines of code by approximately 40%, while increasing
unit test coverage by approximately 150%.  Increased system performance by 400%,
by utilizing ActiveMQ and Apache Camel.  System orchestrated software testing
utilizing VMLogix LabManager and virtual images running on VMware ESX servers.
System performance now allows Intuit to run approximately 1100 software tests
overnight, testing web-based and desktop software products.

Assisted with mission-critical project that created various Maven plug-ins used
for Intuit’s build system.  Built system utilizes Hudson and Perforce.  Migrated
Savvion 6.0 projects to Savvion 7.0.

### Camico
<span class="by-line">08/2007 – 02/2009</span>


Led a team creating web-based insurance applications that allows clients to
purchase or renew professional liability insurance policy(s).  Camico saw
positive income from their new business application within a week of the initial
launch.  Integrated multiple systems using Oracle AquaLogic BPM.  These systems
included: SalesLogix CRM, Camico’s Policy System ‘PLUS’, communicating with
various .Net web services, databases, and business analytics.  Co-authored
custom .Net WebControl / AJAX library extending .Net controls while utilizing
MooTools and Clientcide JavaScript libraries.

Worked with Camico employees to improve unit testing, system testing, source
control, installation procedures, and other software best practices.   These
practices were instrumental in reducing overall time to market by approximately
33%.  Mentored developers in software development, AquaLogic BPM, Java / C# web
service interoperability, and general software delivery practices.

### Warner Bros.
<span class="by-line">03/2007 – 05/2007</span>


Brought on to the Digital End-to-End (DETE) program to provide: architecture
health checks, mentoring across various project components, and the delivery of
service layer framework to access AquaLogic BPM.  DETE is Warner Bros. vision of
the future studio environment, wherein content is created, processed, managed and
distributed digitally.  The project’s cornerstone technologies included
AquaLogic BPM, WebCenter Interaction, AquaLogic Enterprise Service Bus, and HP
Digital Media Platform.

Collaborated with different development teams to stabilize and implement base
frameworks for various project components including data service layer utilizing
hibernate with Java 5.0 annotations, automated build environment with maven2,
and review of system hardware infrastructure to support an HA environment.
Delivered Spring aware service layer framework that allowed various software
components to access ALBPM via its Process API (PAPI).

### Option One Mortgage
<span class="by-line">02/2007 – 03/2007</span>


Developed a paperless mortgage AquaLogic BPM application.  Implemented WebLogic
PageFlows communicating with AquaLogic BPM via Process API calls. The custom
PageFlows replaced the out of the box ALBPM interactive user pages. Collaborated
with the client performance tuning WebLogic and ALBPM Engine running on a VMWare
virtual server.

### Micron Technologies
<span class="by-line">07/2006 – 01/2007</span>


Led the implementation of a Savvion BusinessManager 6.8, on BEA WebLogic 8.1
server.  The rollout included fifteen systems with five systems in production.
Integrated WebLogic applications with SiteMinder agents on both Apache and
WebLogic, to provide Single Sign-On solution.  Corrected LDAP and Savvion
integration issues that reduced client’s login time from over ten minutes to
less than four seconds.

Implemented company’s overall BPM strategy and practices, while mentoring
various business units with BPM implementations.  BPM projects ranged from
manufacturing excursions to providing executive level metrics and scorecards.
Created production release procedures that leveraged CruiseControl, Maven and
Subversion.

## Military Experience

### United States Air Force and DOD
<span class="by-line">06/2005 – 08/2005</span>


Honorably discharged, in 1994, from United States Air Force with the rank of
E-4, and continued to work for the Department of Defense.  A Decorated veteran
with time spent in Desert Storm.

## Education

### University of Colorado
<span class="by-line">Boulder Colorado</span>

Electrical Computer Engineering - Attended three years of college, before being recruited by an employer for a software position.
